contrib/ci/README.md, before:

# Continous integration scripts

## TravisCI

For testing on Linux and macOS we use [TravisCI](https://travis-ci.org/)

TravisCI consumes the `.travis.yml` file in the root of the repository
to tell it how to build and test Z3.

However the logic for building and test Z3 is kept out of this file
and instead in a set of scripts in `scripts/`. This avoids
coupling the build to TravisCI tightly so we can migrate to another
service if required in the future.

The scripts rely on a set of environment variables to control the configuration
of the build. The `.travis.yml` declares a list of configuration with each
configuration setting different environment variables.

### Configuration variables

* `ASAN_BUILD` - Do [AddressSanitizer](https://github.com/google/sanitizers/wiki/AddressSanitizer) build (`0` or `1`)
* `BUILD_DOCS` - Build API documentation (`0` or `1`)
* `C_COMPILER` - Path to C Compiler
* `CXX_COMPILER` - Path to C++ Compiler
* `DOTNET_BINDINGS` - Build and test .NET API bindings (`0` or `1`)
* `JAVA_BINDINGS` - Build and test Java API bindings (`0` or `1`)
* `NO_SUPPRESS_OUTPUT` - Don't suppress output of some commands (`0` or `1`)
* `PYTHON_BINDINGS` - Build and test Python API bindings (`0` or `1`)
* `RUN_SYSTEM_TESTS` - Run system tests (`0` or `1`)
* `RUN_UNIT_TESTS` - Run unit tests (`0` or `1`)
* `TARGET_ARCH` - Target architecture (`x86_64` or `i686`)
* `TEST_INSTALL` - Test running `install` target (`0` or `1`)
* `UBSAN_BUILD` - Do [UndefinedBehaviourSanitizer](https://clang.llvm.org/docs/UndefinedBehaviorSanitizer.html) build (`0` or `1`)
* `USE_LIBGMP` - Use [GNU multiple precision library](https://gmplib.org/) (`0` or `1`)
* `USE_LTO` - Link binaries using link time optimization (`0` or `1`)
* `USE_OPENMP` - Use OpenMP (`0` or `1`)
* `Z3_BUILD_TYPE` - CMake build type (`RelWithDebInfo`, `Release`, `Debug`, or `MinSizeRel`)
* `Z3_CMAKE_GENERATOR` - CMake generator (`Ninja` or `Unix Makefiles`)
* `Z3_VERBOSE_BUILD_OUTPUT` - Show compile commands in CMake builds (`0` or `1`)
* `Z3_STATIC_BUILD` - Build Z3 binaries and libraries statically (`0` or `1`)
* `Z3_SYSTEM_TEST_GIT_REVISION` - Git revision of [z3test](https://github.com/Z3Prover/z3test). If empty lastest revision will be used.

### Linux

For Linux we use Docker to perform the build so that it easily reproducible
on a local machine and so that we can avoid depending on TravisCI's environment
and instead use a Linux distribution of our choice.

The `scripts/travis_ci_linux_entry_point.sh` script

1. Creates a base image containing all the dependencies needed to build and test Z3
2. Builds and tests Z3 using the base image propagating configuration environment
   variables (if set) into the build using the `--build-arg` argument of the `docker run`
   command.

If an environemnt variable is not set a defaults value is used which can be
found in `Dockerfiles/z3_build.Dockerfile`.

#### Linux specific configuration variables

* `LINUX_BASE` - The base docker image identifier to use (`ubuntu_16.04`, `ubuntu32_16.04`, or `ubuntu_14.04`).

#### Reproducing a build locally

A build can be reproduced locally by using the `scripts/travis_ci_linux_entry_point.sh`
script and setting the appropriate environment variable.

For example lets say we wanted to reproduce the build below.

```yaml

  - LINUX_BASE=ubuntu_16.04 C_COMPILER=/usr/bin/gcc-5 CXX_COMPILER=/usr/bin/g++-5 TARGET_ARCH=x86_64 Z3_BUILD_TYPE=RelWithDebInfo
```

This can be done by running the command

```bash
LINUX_BASE=ubuntu_16.04 C_COMPILER=/usr/bin/gcc-5 CXX_COMPILER=/usr/bin/g++-5 TARGET_ARCH=x86_64 Z3_BUILD_TYPE=RelWithDebInfo scripts/travis_ci_linux_entry_point.sh
```

The `docker build` command which we use internally supports caching. What this
means in practice is that re-running the above command will re-use successfully
completed stages of the build provided they haven't changed. This requires that
the `Dockerfiles/z3_build.Dockerfile` is carefully crafted to avoid invalidating
the cache when unrelated files sent to the build context change.

#### TravisCI docker image cache

To improve build times the Z3 base docker images are cached using
[TravisCI's cache directory feature](https://docs.travis-ci.com/user/caching).
If the `DOCKER_TRAVIS_CI_CACHE_DIR` environment variable is set (see `.travis.yml`)
then the directory pointed to by the environment variable is used as a cache
for Docker images.

The logic for this can be found in `scripts/travis_ci_linux_entry_point.sh`.
The build time improvements are rather modest (~ 2 minutes) and the cache is
rather large due to TravisCI giving each configuration its own cache. So this
feature might be removed in the future.

It may be better to just build the base image once (outside of TravisCI), upload
it to [DockerHub](https://hub.docker.com/) and have the build pull down the pre-built
image everytime.

An [organization](https://hub.docker.com/u/z3prover/) has been created on
DockerHub for this.

### macOS

Not yet implemented.

Commit message:

Don't build api docs by default

contrib/ci/README.md, after:

# Continous integration scripts

## TravisCI

For testing on Linux and macOS we use [TravisCI](https://travis-ci.org/)

TravisCI consumes the `.travis.yml` file in the root of the repository
to tell it how to build and test Z3.

However the logic for building and test Z3 is kept out of this file
and instead in a set of scripts in `scripts/`. This avoids
coupling the build to TravisCI tightly so we can migrate to another
service if required in the future.

The scripts rely on a set of environment variables to control the configuration
of the build. The `.travis.yml` declares a list of configuration with each
configuration setting different environment variables.

Note that the build scripts currently only support Z3 built with CMake. Support
for building Z3 using the older Python/Makefile build system might be added in
the future.

### Configuration variables

* `ASAN_BUILD` - Do [AddressSanitizer](https://github.com/google/sanitizers/wiki/AddressSanitizer) build (`0` or `1`)
* `BUILD_DOCS` - Build API documentation (`0` or `1`)
* `C_COMPILER` - Path to C Compiler
* `CXX_COMPILER` - Path to C++ Compiler
* `DOTNET_BINDINGS` - Build and test .NET API bindings (`0` or `1`)
* `JAVA_BINDINGS` - Build and test Java API bindings (`0` or `1`)
* `NO_SUPPRESS_OUTPUT` - Don't suppress output of some commands (`0` or `1`)
* `PYTHON_BINDINGS` - Build and test Python API bindings (`0` or `1`)
* `RUN_SYSTEM_TESTS` - Run system tests (`0` or `1`)
* `RUN_UNIT_TESTS` - Run unit tests (`0` or `1`)
* `TARGET_ARCH` - Target architecture (`x86_64` or `i686`)
* `TEST_INSTALL` - Test running `install` target (`0` or `1`)
* `UBSAN_BUILD` - Do [UndefinedBehaviourSanitizer](https://clang.llvm.org/docs/UndefinedBehaviorSanitizer.html) build (`0` or `1`)
* `USE_LIBGMP` - Use [GNU multiple precision library](https://gmplib.org/) (`0` or `1`)
* `USE_LTO` - Link binaries using link time optimization (`0` or `1`)
* `USE_OPENMP` - Use OpenMP (`0` or `1`)
* `Z3_BUILD_TYPE` - CMake build type (`RelWithDebInfo`, `Release`, `Debug`, or `MinSizeRel`)
* `Z3_CMAKE_GENERATOR` - CMake generator (`Ninja` or `Unix Makefiles`)
* `Z3_VERBOSE_BUILD_OUTPUT` - Show compile commands in CMake builds (`0` or `1`)
* `Z3_STATIC_BUILD` - Build Z3 binaries and libraries statically (`0` or `1`)
* `Z3_SYSTEM_TEST_GIT_REVISION` - Git revision of [z3test](https://github.com/Z3Prover/z3test). If empty lastest revision will be used.

### Linux

For Linux we use Docker to perform the build so that it easily reproducible
on a local machine and so that we can avoid depending on TravisCI's environment
and instead use a Linux distribution of our choice.

The `scripts/travis_ci_linux_entry_point.sh` script

1. Creates a base image containing all the dependencies needed to build and test Z3
2. Builds and tests Z3 using the base image propagating configuration environment
   variables (if set) into the build using the `--build-arg` argument of the `docker run`
   command.

If an environemnt variable is not set a defaults value is used which can be
found in `Dockerfiles/z3_build.Dockerfile`.

#### Linux specific configuration variables

* `LINUX_BASE` - The base docker image identifier to use (`ubuntu_16.04`, `ubuntu32_16.04`, or `ubuntu_14.04`).

#### Reproducing a build locally

A build can be reproduced locally by using the `scripts/travis_ci_linux_entry_point.sh`
script and setting the appropriate environment variable.

For example lets say we wanted to reproduce the build below.

```yaml

  - LINUX_BASE=ubuntu_16.04 C_COMPILER=/usr/bin/gcc-5 CXX_COMPILER=/usr/bin/g++-5 TARGET_ARCH=x86_64 Z3_BUILD_TYPE=RelWithDebInfo
```

This can be done by running the command

```bash
LINUX_BASE=ubuntu_16.04 C_COMPILER=/usr/bin/gcc-5 CXX_COMPILER=/usr/bin/g++-5 TARGET_ARCH=x86_64 Z3_BUILD_TYPE=RelWithDebInfo scripts/travis_ci_linux_entry_point.sh
```

The `docker build` command which we use internally supports caching. What this
means in practice is that re-running the above command will re-use successfully
completed stages of the build provided they haven't changed. This requires that
the `Dockerfiles/z3_build.Dockerfile` is carefully crafted to avoid invalidating
the cache when unrelated files sent to the build context change.

#### TravisCI docker image cache

To improve build times the Z3 base docker images are cached using
[TravisCI's cache directory feature](https://docs.travis-ci.com/user/caching).
If the `DOCKER_TRAVIS_CI_CACHE_DIR` environment variable is set (see `.travis.yml`)
then the directory pointed to by the environment variable is used as a cache
for Docker images.

The logic for this can be found in `scripts/travis_ci_linux_entry_point.sh`.
The build time improvements are rather modest (~ 2 minutes) and the cache is
rather large due to TravisCI giving each configuration its own cache. So this
feature might be removed in the future.

It may be better to just build the base image once (outside of TravisCI), upload
it to [DockerHub](https://hub.docker.com/) and have the build pull down the pre-built
image everytime.

An [organization](https://hub.docker.com/u/z3prover/) has been created on
DockerHub for this.

### macOS

Not yet implemented.
